
 1.why pointer is not used in java
 
 we know jvm is responsbile for memory allocation in java, to stop direct access to memory in java pointer is discourged
 and they are unsafe
 
 2.what is jit compiler?

---------concluseion------------
so jdk is for developer to create java applications
jre is for used to run java application
------------
 from --scr code to (jdk for conversion) --byte code
 from --byte code to (jvm for conversion (insidee jvm we have[jit compiler and interpreter])) --machine code

jdk--java development kit that provide all the tools required to
 develop,complile and run the java app
 jdk we have
 compiler - 
 debugger
 jre - bunch of libraries

jvm- java virtual machine
 key component - memory management = allo/deallo memory for the applcation
 -garbage collection = automatically  cleans up unused memory
 -security = 
 



 
 3.what is marker interface?
 
 an interface which has no data member and member fucntions 
simply an empty interface eg serializable , cloneable etc
then why dont we have it, means it tells the compiler that someting to do with it
particular thing to do to for jdk and compiler

 hint ctrl shift t
 public interfcae Cloneable{
 }

4. can we override private or static method in java??

we cannot overrid privat method- we can only create another private methid
with same name in the child class

for static method if you override then it will hide the supercalss method
known as method hidding...

5. Does finally alwas execute in java?

not in the following case
1. "System.exit()" function  when we cally it explicitally
2. system crash

6. what method does object class have?

clone()
equals()
finalize()
hashcode() return hascode value for the oject
getClass()

7.what is singleton class in java? how can we make a class singleton??
 only one instance is created at any givenn time in one JVM


public class Animal{
private static Animal single_instance = null;

private Animal(){
}

public static Animal getIntance(){
 if(single_instance ==null)
   single_instance = new Animal();
}
 return single_insatnce;
}

1st make sure make your constructo as private to make sure nobody can create any
then to create one oject, we have to crearte one

2nd,  public static Animal single_instance= null;

3rd we have to create a static block for the same which will return the same class oject

-----

is java is pass by value or pass by reference??

pass by value-- sending memory address of the value
pass by reference-- reather than passing real memory address, 
                     it send the copy in another mem location

